Implementation Of RPC(REMOTE PROCEDURE CALL) In C

->The main idea of the project is the implementation of Remote Procedure Call in a client – server model .
->A remote procedure call(RPC) is an inter-process communication technique that is used for client-server based applications.
->It is based on extending the conventional local procedure calling so that the called procedure need not exist in the same address space as the calling procedure.
->RPC ensure abstraction i.e.) The unnecessary implementation details are hidden from the user .
->This project is implemented using RPCGEN in linux environment.
->RPCGEN is a tool that generates C code to implement an RPC protocol.

What I implemented?

->I implemented some operations like addition, subtraction where the client enters two numbers and request the server to respond by returning the result of addition and subtraction.
->I also computed the factorial of a number  where the client enters a number and request the server to respond by returning the factorial of the given number.
->Real time scenario where a student enter his WIN-SEM marks for five subjects and then request the Server to compute the grade and percentage he/she gets based on his/her marks.

About RPCGEN Tool:

->The RPCGEN tool takes one file as input and generates four output files. These output files contains executable files for server and client connection.
->The client side STUB wraps the request message with the required parameters and then passes it to the client side transport layer for transmitting the message to the server side.
->A Stub means a piece of code that is used to convert parameters during RPC.
->This process of wrapping the message and converting it into a standard format as a message packet  is known as Marshalling.
->The client stub then passes the message to the transport layer, which sends it to the remote server machine.
->The server side transport layer passes the message to the STUB of the server side.
->The STUB unwraps the parameters from the message,this process of unwrapping the parameters is known as Demarshalling.

Implementation of RPC:

->COMPILER used : RPCGEN
->I have done three kinds of Implementations
->Server and client in the same system:
    1. Computing addition and subtraction of two numbers input by client
    2. Computing the factorial of a number input by the client
    3. Computing the overall percentage of marks secured by the student and thus assigning the grade based on the percentage, given the scores of the student in 5 subjects

Steps to follow:

1.Creation of X file which includes the details of structure of arguments passed and the procedure to be called remotely.
2.Compling the X file using RPCGEN
3.Execute Makefile command to compile the newly created files and to generate additional files.
4.In the server.c file generated, access the parameters passed, implement the functionality in the method  and return the result.
5.In the client.c file generated by RPCGEN, Pass the parameters and call the remote method.
6.Receive the result returned by the remote method and display the result in the client side.

Conclusion:
->This server and client can be there in any location, just by providing the IP address of server, client can execute complex methods and methods which are taking more space and system capability to execute and get result from server.
->By doing this I can reduce code redundancy and many clients can interact with same server to execute some method present in server and get their wanted results back. So I reducing space complexity also (One method stored in one place i.e, server can be executed by large number of clients).

Youtube link:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ktj4XRiNGkk